So now that we've built our log in and sign up system let me just give you a quick reminder of what
we're working towards.
So in this video will be obviously prettifying things quite a bit using bootstrap and getting a nice
background image in that we're going to be using a little bit of jay Querrey to switch between log in
and sign up forms.
And then when the user does sign up
we're going to jump from that to our secret diary page which will look like this.
And then they can site whatever they like and it will get updated immediately in the database that we
have and of course the user will be able to see logout clicking the button at the top.
So that's what we're after.
Let's get a crack in
OK then.
Here we go.
I'm going to start Of course by jumping over to strap.
I'm getting our starter template
our usual route to getting started which may be slightly different for you.
If the Web site has updated but what we want is this starter template and then we're going to put all
of this beneath our ph P
and I'll pop the form
into it.
Now
we get.
So this is going to be a similar process to when we made the what's the weather app for.
So we'll have a class of container
and then we'll have an H-1 of
secret diary then we'll put in our forms.
We'll make those pretty later on.
And then well let's have a quick look at that before we do anything else.
Great.
So you can see that's what happens if you don't apply the bootstrap form stylings So let's do those
next.
Remember the form is a component
and then click forms and I'm not going to copy and paste the whole thing this time.
I'm just going to remind myself right.
So we need field sets around the inputs
and then we're going to end the field set then.
So let's put all of these in fast
failed sets there
and then we'll close the field set and the inputs go inside the field sets.
OK.
And then the same
for the second form
and then we'll close that final fill set and let's indent everything
OK.
And then we need to give inputs a class of form control
except the submit which is going to have a type of button and OK for Button success.
So a nice green button.
And then similarly up here.
All right let's have a look.
Okay looking quite a bit nicer.
All right so let's add a bit of text to our checkbooks
so I'll just add.
Stay logged in
there and that will create the cookie.
If they take the books
that have a look.
OK that's not quite what we need.
So let's just take a look.
Probably some special code that we need for the checkbox.
OK so we need a div with a class
of checkbooks and then a label for that one.
So let's get rid of our field set for the check box and add in the div as our label stay logged in and
then we'll close the label
and close the div and then we're not using the field set to Caylus just have a look.
Make sure that works
OK.
Still lower down.
Let's get rid of the line break.
See if that does the trick.
Say something's going wrong.
Oh I noticed the check box doesn't actually have a form control class.
That's probably what's causing the problem.
Ok that's better.
So let's not do the same thing.
Fill out the form
and close the label.
Place the div get rid of the clays field set
and of course the form control class.
So already looking a lot nicer.
Let's send to everything inside.
I'll contain div
been enthusiastic with my styles then
so we might be able to use just text or with center.
Let's have a let's see if that makes everything a bit crazy wide.
I think it does.
So let's give it a way of say 400 pixels
OK the last bit of styling I'm going to do before we get rid of the loggin form initially and allow
the user to toggle between the two.
It's a nice background image.
So we'll go over to n splash dot com.
And this time I know a little bit more about what I want.
So I'm going to do a search for nature because I want a nice clean simple nature image which will inspire
people to write in their diary I think I like that one.
So it's good to kind of solitary feel to it.
So let's click there and save image as and I'm going to save it into my my school folder
has background and then I suspect I'm going to need to resize it.
So let's have a look.
Yep 4.7 megabytes is a lot more than we need.
So I'm just going to DoubleClick and then Tools adjust size and we'll go for a with 2000 which is absolutely
plenty
and then save.
It's still pretty large.
I would definitely make that smaller if this was going to be a production site but it will do for us
and back over to Firefox with fire FGP.
And then let's just drag out the folder contents that will do a quick refresh as background.
JPEG So let's upload it.
Wonderful.
So just to check as before that everything's connected.
And working let's pop the image into our container Dave direcly.
So it was background's dot and then that's just check background.
Jay Pegge without any this time.
And let's have a look.
Great.
It's that.
Now our next challenge is to get it full screen and stretched.
So in fact we could do a c s s full page background Google but I've still got the page that we found
when we did that last time
so I'm just going to grab the C-s s that we know works.
Puppet in there.
Get some nice indenting
and then change the background image to background of JPAC.
And we'll get rid of the other image tag.
Take a look.
OK that's good.
We just need to get rid of the background
on everything except how each DML element that we can put them.
So obviously we need to work on a vertical positioning a little that's for now.
Give it a margin top of 200 pixels just to move it down a little a little too much I think.
150.
Great.
OK.
So now we need to deal with the fact that we've got to log in or sign up forms displaying at the same
time which is definitely not what we want.
So first I'm going to give them both an ID so that we can refer to them.
So the idea for this one is going to be sign up form
the idea that this one is going to be in for and the crucial thing about log in form
is that it's going to be hidden.
There we go.
So let's add some text to the bottom of the sign up form to allow the user to log in if they want to
have a paragraph and then
we'll just have a link
with no Tref but an ID of show log in form
and the text can be logged in get then we can have a bit of Jey query
at the bottom
and we want this to be called when the log in button is clicked.
So it will get it by its ID.
That is Shirey log in form.
So when it's clicked we want a function to run
and I'd like to do a test
to make sure that my Jey queries are connected up right before I try and do anything complicated.
Exham so they can get.
So what I want to do here is I want to toggle each of the forms
so I want to talk to both log in form and sign up form.
So let's Toko sign up form first
so that will make it disappear.
And then do the same thing
for log in form
OK so that should switch from a sign up form to the looking for
pretty simple.
Now let's add a link to switch from the logon form back to the sign up form and you may have noticed
that actually the code to do that is exactly the same.
We want to toggle both of those forms.
So actually we can make this a bit simpler instead of having this function twice.
We could have a class of
Toko forms
and then we can have another one here as well.
Excellent.
Now we should be able to switch back and forth between the forms.
So we need to do a little bit of fixing with the layout here and I think we could do with a little bit
of explanatory text.
So let's have
a paragraph with some strong text in it saying something like
stole your thoughts
permanently and secure the
do you need to do something without colors but we'll sort that out in a minute.
And then
I want to add a bit of text to each of these.
So to sign a form
I'm going to add.
Interested.
Sign up now.
And then for the logon form will have logged in using your user name.
And password.
And then let's have a look.
Excellent.
So it is there even though it's not very easy to see.
So let's
experiment with some coloring.
So I'm going to start by just making everything white
OK.
That actually looks pretty good.
The only thing I can see very clearly is that loggin
link
say I'm going to try playing with that.
That was a Tuggle forms league.
So let's try first off making it bold because I'd like it to be a bit clearer anyway.
Actually I think that works pretty well.
It's not quite the clearest But it's clear enough let that be a lesson to you that when you're choosing
background images the most important thing is that it doesn't obscure the text or instructions that
you want the user to read.
All right.
But we'll go just as far as that in terms of design so let's sign up yet another account because I can't
remember any of the passwords.
And sign ourselves up.
Great.
So now we're over in logged in page up HP and most of the work for the rest of the Web site is going
to be on this page.
But before we leave our index page hide behind completely.
I am going to do a little bit of work to create some extra files so we don't have to contain all this
code twice.
So first off I'm going to get all of this DML and I'm going to include it in a file called header top
HP save that fan and then that's created here.
So I headed up HP open it up and paste that load in
and then if we just check
logout everything should still work fine.
But now our head of code can be accessed from any other page and we only need to edit it once.
Now this code is unique to index dot ph page so I can leave that there.
But everything from here downwards I can put in a footer file.
So I'm going to call that footer ph.
OK and this create that file.
Notice that this script is only for the home page but it won't cause any problems on any of the other
pages.
It's probably simpler to just leave it there OK.
And the other bit of code that I want to be accessible from anywhere is the connection code because
I don't want to have the password for my database repeated throughout my website.
So I'm going to get rid of that and include that as a file called connection.
So to create that
I open it up and because this one has page peacoat I need to put the picture picaxe back in
and then I can say that as it is and just to check that everything still works as it did before.
And there we go.
Everything is still working great great.
So now it's just a matter of making a log in page and that should be pretty straightforward.
Now that we can use the included files that we've just created.
So let's start working with logged in page and we're going to keep this set up here.
But now we're going to include
headed up HP and footed up HP and that should give us a nice looking page.
Without doing anything to earn it.
Wonderful.
So our secret diary is going to be pretty simple.
We're just going to have a container div
and type to get to close HP
and then within that we can have a text area with an ID of diary.
All right.
There it is pretty simple at the moment.
But let's first give it a class of form control circuits all the nice bootstrap stylings that we get
and then we want to make this pretty big.
So let's go over to headed up here HP
and give it some styles.
So this is the diary ID and I'm going to start with a width of 100 percent and a height of 100 percent.
So let's see how that looks.
OK not bad but we got a few problems then.
First off I've realized that our container here has a margin top of 150 pixels which we don't want on
our container.
In our second page.
So let's
have a new ID of home page container which is going to have a margin top of 150 and that should
then not apply to our new container.
Of course that means you'll need to add it indexed that page again.
So now let's give the container div here in the index page file an ID of a home page container and then
we should have the margin at the top of that one but not at the top of this wall.
So let's jump back over and take a look.
So happy with that.
Height wise with wise however it looks like it's.
Why does the container.
But that's not very wide.
There is an easy fix though if you remember there's a related class a container called container of
fluid which stretches out to the very edge of the screen and that's what we want here.
We just want a nice big text area for people to keep their thoughts in
that kind of thing.
OK so now we just need to update the diary field in the database with the contents of the text area
when it's updated.
Easy right.
Well we've already done something fairly similar in our code play up.
So let's find the code or something similar that we use them something like a text change in text area
content I should do it for us.
Here we go.
How do I bind to the change event of a textarea NJ query.
Perfect.
Pretty sure that's the one we used before.
So we're going to put this in the footer
that's where we'll now Jake where he goes.
And we won't see
do this with the diary ID and we don't need to do any of that stuff.
Siphon out as usual we'll just let
changed
see if everything is working.
It is indeed.
So how are we going to update the database when this changes.
Well we can only update the database with a script.
So we're going to need to call a peace script when this changes.
And the only way we can do that is using AJAX
say let's remind ourselves how Ajax works.
It's been a while
as usual go down to the first example.
OK this is pretty simple.
So it looks like that's going to be too careful about what happens if they don't have an internet connection
et cetera.
We saw how to work with errors in Ajax last time.
So I went into that in too much detail this time but we are going to need
a script to do this and we're going to need to pass the contents of our diary textarea to that script
so we could either do that with a get or post.
I think a post is a little bit more exciting.
We haven't done one before.
So let's see if we can find a good example.
Here we go.
This looks perfect.
Actually let's use that one
so we're doing a post to
update database stop here.
Pete and we only need one variable here and that's of click content and that's going to be the contents
of the diary text textarea and we can get that
and we can get that using the diary.
And then VAP So that's how Ajax.
Now we need to just write update database Doppie HP.
So let's say that back over to fire of again create another file update database stop DHP
and first of all just returned some text
and because the sample code that we've got alerts data saved and then message that should alert data
saved and then hi there because it should get back what the script returns.
So fingers crossed wonderful data saved.
Hi there.
And it's doing that with AJAX.
Brilliant.
So now we can work on our update database ph page script
and the main thing that we need to do is get the post variable
so let's check that it's been passed first
Reiki exists and we called it content and it should be in the post right.
Let's put the parentheses in the right place.
And so if it does.
For now let's just echo it.
All right.
There we go.
I was getting the content of what we're writing wonderful.
So all we need to do is say that the database
so I will need to connect to the database which we can now do really easily using our connection to
our page piece script.
And then we just need our queries
so we want to update the user's table
and we want to set just check what the variables were diary
and we want to set that equal to a
mask you apply real escape string
heist
content
and we want to do that where
the ID is equal to.
And where are we going to get this idea from.
Well it's stored as a session variable.
So if we start the session
here we should be able to access it.
So let's use my askew well-I real escape string just in case even though that's pretty much zero chance
of this variable being anything other than a number.
And as usual I'll pop a limit one on the end there just in case and then we'll do a check say
that's been processed correctly by link and queery
and if it has for now we'll just carry success.
Als
OK failed
OK.
And let's have a look.
OK we've got some warnings and a failure there.
It's my classic era
don't forget the link in my ask you apply real escape string
success her and let's convince ourselves that's true.
I've probably been logged out of users now.
So let's look back in.
Oh get the password from connection to HP
we are.
And there we go.
You can see it right there in the database quite so we're pretty close to being done now.
Let's just get rid of the code here because we're not going to return anything to the scripts.
We'll just leave that blank and then we'll get back to you footed up HP and remove the alert
so we can get rid of the don't function completely.
So let's take a look.
So nothing's popping up but is it updating in the database.
Fingers crossed.
Yes it is wonderful.
So couple more slight tweaks.
One issue that we have is when we load the logs in paid initially the directory doesn't display and
that's of course no good to us.
So let's load the diary carried at the top here.
So when we know that we logged in will include connection to HP.
And then we run a query which will be select
diary from
users where ID equals
and them will have my q out my real escape
string and we're using session
id
and will have a limit on that.
And then we want to do the query.
So that's my skew as I query
query and we want to get the results of that straight away.
So we can actually do that all on one line so we can have my ask your ally fetch
array and then use the query directly and we could set row equal to that and then let's have a variable
Tiree content which is going to be equal to Roe.
And then diary and then we'll just echo
diary content in the middle of the text area.
And just before we run that let's pop the link in them and we should also have an empty
diary content string just in case there isn't any.
So we don't get any Ph.D. errors down here.
But just before we run that let's just add it now links.
Now we should find that the saved diary content appears there.
So that is really cool.
If I refresh it's all saved.
Fabulous.
So we're really close to being done.
All that remains is this header here which doesn't look right.
So let's go back over to bootstrap
and get a nice nap.
At the top there so that everything looks good.
So if it's a documentation
components
and Bob
and then we'll just take
none of that and put its
above our container Florida.
Dave before we added it let's just check that it looks OK.
OK that's it's a start but we've got a couple of things to fix them.
So first off we no longer need our logged in log out code at the top here.
But I will be keeping that link so I'll just for that for the moment.
We'll change the nav bar brand to secret diary.
We'll get rid of all of those links and we'll also change the nav bar class to nav bar vext top.
So it's all stretched out and fixed at the top.
We do want to pull right here but it's not going to be a form.
So let's change that to a div.
Get rid of the inputs and I want to make the button I link
with the ref being what I just copied sorry to the logout page
and then we want to change search to logout.
All right let's take a look.
OK.
That's pretty good but our textarea is of course hidden behind our nav bar there.
So we should be able to fix that quite easily with a quick Margene
in our head but we will need to give it an ID first of all contain a fluid.
So this is
contain a logged in page
copy that.
And then I open the header and in the styles
we want to contain a locked in page
and let's give That's a margin top
of let's try 70 pixels that's a little bit too much.
I think I'm going to carry four 60 instead
perfect.
And then of course when the user logs out the back to the home page.
So just one small thing left to fix and that is how error messages.
So if I don't put a password in right now of course I get an error message but it's not particularly
nicely displayed.
And of course I want to use bootstrap alerts to make those look a lot nicer.
So let's copy the carried over from there.
And all of these are going to be
in our index top P
and say well add this here so I will check to see if error is not an empty string.
Then we'll carry
all of this but it's
will point to put
the string itself in the middle of it
OK.
Let's have a look.
So now we should have much prettier error messages.
Wonderful.
Similarly if I try and log in with something that doesn't work
we get a nice error message there as well.
Wonderful.
So that is as far as we're going to go on this project.
There's a fair bit more that you could do with it if you wanted one.
Quite fun extra would be to validate the user's email address and that's not too tricky to do.
You just send them an e-mail as we know how to do with a random code which you then put into a field
in the database and then they click on a link which has that code embedded in it.
And then it checks the code against the database.
And if it's correct then consider the e-mail address validated.
You could also offer different diary pages for different dates and you could set up a password reset
system which e-mails they use if they can't remember their password.
And again sets up a special link via an item in the database and then when the user clicks back on that
link from their e-mail address they're given the opportunity to reset their password.
But this is as far as we're going to go.
And congratulations once again on making it to the end of the my Eskew L section of the course.
You've done some really advanced stuff in this section so pat yourself on the back.
Go have a break and recharge before we unleash the power of Google Maps Facebook Twitter and an unlimited
number of other web services using API is.